# Mass-Shooting-Risk-Assessment
<b>An ML-Powered Risk Assessment System for Predicting Prospective Mass Shooting</b>

The United States had more mass shooting incidents than any other country. It is reported that more than 1,800 incidents occurred in the US during the past three years. Mass shooters often display warning signs before committing crimes, such as childhood traumas, domestic violence, firearms access, and aggressive social media posts. With the advancement of Machine Learning (ML), it is possible than ever to predict mass shootings before they occur by studying the behavior of prospective mass shooters. This project presents an ML-based system that uses various unsupervised ML models to alarm about a balanced progressive tendency of a person to commit a mass shooting. Our system used two models, namely Local Outlier Factor and K-means clustering, to learn both psychological factors and social media activities of previous shooters to provide a probabilistic similarity of a new observation to an existing shooter. The developed system can show the similarity between a new record for a prospective shooter and one or more records from our dataset via a GUI-friendly interface. It enables users to select some social and criminal observations about the prospective shooter. Then, the webpage creates a new record, classifies it, and displays the similarity results. Furthermore, we developed a feed-in module, which allows new observations to be added to our dataset and retrains the ML models. Finally, we evaluated our system using various performance metrics.

